Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were 
perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you’d expect to be 
involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t hold with such nonsense.
Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. He was a 
big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache. 
Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, 
which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, 
spying on the neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion 
there was no finer boy anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and their greatest 
fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn’t think they could bear it if anyone 
found out about the Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t met 
for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn’t have a sister, because her 
sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. 
The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in 
the street. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they had never 
even seen him. This boy was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t 
want Dudley mixing with a child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, 
there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious 
things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out 
his most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a 
screaming Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and 
tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls.
“Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He got into his car and backed out of 
number four’s drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something peculiar reading a map. 
For a second, Mr. Dursley didn’t realize what he had seen — then he jerked his head around to look again. 
There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. 
What could he have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked 
and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, 
he watched the cat in his mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive — no, 
looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake 
and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of nothing except a large order 
of drills he was hoping to get that day. My name is Alice and your name is Bob.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something else. 
As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn’t help noticing that there seemed 
to be a lot of strangely dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn’t 
bear people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups you saw on young people! He supposed 
this was some stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes 
fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedly together. 
Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of them weren’t young at all; why, that man had to be older 
than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The nerve of him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this 
was probably some silly stunt —these people were obviously collecting for something… yes, that would be it. 
The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the ninth floor. If he hadn’t, 
he might have found it harder to concentrate on drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping 
past in broad daylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl 
after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. 
He yelled at five different people. 
He made several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he’d stretch his 
legs and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of them next to the baker’s. 
He eyed them angrily as he passed. He didn’t know why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering 
excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single collecting tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a 
large doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were saying. 
The Potters knew very well what he and Petunia thought about them and their kind… 
He couldn’t see how he and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going on — he yawned and 
turned over — it couldn’t affect them…
How very wrong he was.
Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but the cat on the wall outside was 
showing no sign of sleepiness. It was sitting as still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly 
on the far corner of Privet Drive. It didn’t so much as quiver when a car door slammed on the next street, 
nor when two owls swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at all.
A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appeared so suddenly and silently you’d have 
thought he’d just popped out of the ground. The cat’s tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.
Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. He was tall, thin, and very old, 
judging by the silver of his hair and beard, which were both long enough to tuck into his belt. 
He was wearing long robes, a purple cloak that swept the ground, and high-heeled, buckled boots. 
His blue eyes were light, bright, and sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was very 
long and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice. This man’s name was Albus Dumbledore.
Albus Dumbledore didn’t seem to realize that he had just arrived in a street where everything from
his name to his boots was unwelcome. He was busy rummaging in his cloak, looking for something. 
But he did seem to realize he was being watched, because he looked up suddenly at the cat, which was 
still staring at him from the other end of the street. For some reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse him. 
He chuckled and muttered, “I should have known.”
He found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. 
He flicked it open, held it up in the air, and clicked it. The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. 
He clicked it again — the next lamp flickered into darkness. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer, until the only 
lights left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of the cat watching him. 
If anyone looked out of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Dursley, they wouldn’t be able to see anything that was
happening down on the pavement. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside his cloak and set off down the 
street toward number four, where he sat down on the wall next to the cat. He didn’t look at it, but after a 
moment he spoke to it.
“Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.”
examined it. It was a very odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It must have made sense to Dumbledore, though, because he put it back in his pocket and said, “Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was he who told you I’d be here, by the way?”
“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “And I don’t suppose you’re going to tell me why you’re here, of all places?”
“I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They’re the only family he has left now.”
“You don’t mean – you can’t mean the people who live here?” cried Professor McGonagall, 
jumping to her feet and pointing at number four. “Dumbledore — you can’t. I’ve been watching them all day. 
You couldn’t find two people who are less like us. And they’ve got this son — I saw him kicking his mother 
all the way up the street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter come and live here!”
“It’s the best place for him,” said Dumbledore firmly. “His aunt and uncle will be able to explain everything 
to him when he’s older. I’ve written them a letter.”
“A letter?” repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back down on the wall. “Really, Dumbledore, 
you think you can explain all this in a letter? These people will never understand him! He’ll be famous — 
a legend — I wouldn’t be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter day in the future — there will 
be books written about Harry — every child in our world will know his name!”
“Exactly.” said Dumbledore, looking very seriously over the top of his half-moon glasses. 
“It would be enough to turn any boy’s head. Famous before he can walk and talk! Famous for something 
he won’t even remember! Can you see how much better off he’ll be, growing up away from all that until 
he’s ready to take it?”
Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind, swallowed, and then said, “Yes — yes, 
you’re right, of course. But how is the boy getting here, Dumbledore?” She eyed his cloak suddenly 
as though she thought he might be hiding Harry underneath it.
“Hagrid’s bringing him.”
“You think it —wise — to trust Hagrid with something as important as this?”
“I would trust Hagrid with my life,” said Dumbledore.
“I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right place,” said Professor McGonagall grudgingly, 
“but you can’t pretend he’s not careless. He does tend to — what was that?”
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grew steadily louder as they 
looked up and down the street for some sign of a headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both 
looked up at the sky — and a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on the road in front
He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was smiling at a rather severe-looking 
woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes. 
She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her black hair was drawn into a tight bun. 
She looked distinctly ruffled.